I conducted research on hybrid intelligence systems (combining human and artificial intelligence) 
and human-computer interaction in the [Crowds and Machines (CROMA) Lab](http://croma.eecs.umich.edu/croma.html) 
advised by [Dr. Walter S. Lasecki](http://croma.eecs.umich.edu/index.html).

My most recent project was using machine learning for conversation disentanglement which is the separation of 
distinct conversations that have occurred in the same thread over the same period of time.
[Previous work](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P19-1374/) had already proven this to be possible with high 
accuracy however it took 255 hours of human effort to annotate the dataset and the evaluation was done on 
conversation within the same domain as the training data. 
Our goal was to learn if it was possible to obtain a similar accuracy in new domains with minimal human effort. 
We proposed using transfer learning to leverage the original dataset and then training the model on a small set 
of data in the new domain. We aimed to require users to spend on the order of one hour or less annotating data 
in a new domain in order to achieve high accuracy conversation disentanglement in that new domain. 
In order to so, we theorized that choosing the right data to annotate was critical (e.g. a single untangled 
conversation will likely not be as informative as a heavily entangled conversation). 
While it made sense that training on more entangled data was likely better, there was a number of problems 
with proving this that I solved.

First, I had to collect data large amounts of data about IRC channels. 
The primary reason for identifying channels in new domains and collecting logs from these channels. 
I also used this data to characterize the IRC space. 
For example I determined the proportion of channels that had logs (even if they weren't accessible) as we 
felt that if channel admins cared enough to keep around logs, disentangling those logs would be of interest to them. 
This was one way we motivated our research.

Second, there existed no metric for comparing the level of entanglement of threads. 
Thus, I conceptualized two metrics to do this - the average number of conversations at a time instant in a 
thread and the link intersection ratio of a thread. 
If we annotate a conversation, we create "links" from a message to the message that it is in response to. 
A link intersection occurs whenever two links span messages in the same time range (thus indicating that 
two conversations were occuring at overlapping times). 
While these metrics matched our intuition for what constitutes and more entangled conversation, I still 
had to prove their effectiveness. 
Thus, I used the strong correlation between these metrics and other metrics that we would expect to be 
affected by the entanglement of a thread (e.g. number of messages per minute, number of username references 
in messages, etc.) to motivate the usefullness of my custom metrics.

Lastly, now that I had these metrics, I was able to tackle our next problem which was proving that we 
could use them to determine which portions of conversations users should annotate and later train the 
model on to most effectively increase the accuracy of the model in the new domain. 
There were a number of elements to this. 
One was showing a strong correlation between the calculated entanglement of a thread with the original 
model (only transfer learning) and the trained model (transfer learning plus training in the new domain) 
because it would be counterproductive to annotate all the data to find the most entangled data to annotate 
only that data. 
Another important aspect was running experiments to determine the effectiveness of training on different 
amounts of data and various levels of entangled data. 
We will use these results to guide our suggestion for choosing data to annotate for new users in new domains.

Previously I also did research in the space of image annotation tools where I worked on two main projects. 
First, I worked on an image annotation tool that aggragated crowd worker's responses for a particle filtering 
task to reconstruct 3D scenes from 2D images particularly geared towards images of vehicles. 
This would allow us to train autonomous vehicles using already existing videos from the perspective of a 
car driving on the road rather than needing to go collect that data manually. 
This is particularly interesting because we can use videos of accidents (or "close calls") to train autonomous 
vehicles rather putting cars into this situation purposefully in order to collect that data. 
My work on this project primarily involved making improvements to the UI so that it was easier to use for our 
target audience - crowd workers. 
Initial testing with expert annotators showed that our improvements led to a 30% increase in accuracy.

The second project focused on the generalization of image annotation tools. 
We decided to look into what made image annotation tasks difficult and we found that there were two 
main types of challenges: challenges caused by the properties of the image (e.g. low color contrast) 
being annotated and challenges caused by the goal of the annotation task (e.g. boundary identification). 
This led to us developing the concepts of image property categories and task requirement categories that 
are found across domains of image annotation tasks. 
From these categories, we developed a test harness which should guide the design of image annotation tools 
and testbeds that wish to generalize across a range of domains. 
This work was published and presented at UIST 2019 and the abstract can be found 
[here](https://amverni.github.io/assets/files/towards_universal_evaluation_of_image_annotation_interfaces.pdf).
