I was named the lead of the Autonomous Navigation subteam for my second season on the 
[Michigan Mars Rover Team (MRover)](https://mrover.org/). 
My primary responsibility was the successful design and implementation of the autonomous navigation system. 
I had to ensure that we were meeting all of our design requirements set by our systems engineering team and 
that the implementation of those designs would be completed within our allocated budget and met all of the 
critical deadlines set by our executive board. All of these things were tasks I was capable of performing for myself, 
however I was no longer just taking care of myself. 
I was now managing a team of 17 undergraduate students with varying programming backgrounds that I had to plan for 
and delegate work to Initially I thought that I was going to be able to excel in this role because I was an expert 
in the subject matter for our subteam. This was far from true. 
My first semester as lead, I struggled greatly to bring out the best in my members due to a steep learning curve in 
our teams tools, a lack of experience on my part in properly delegating tasks, and wavering commitment from some members. 
Our team’s progress was minimal and I was running out of ideas on how to change that. 
Two months into the season I reached out to one of the seniors on our team for his advice. 
After a lot of discussion we realized that members were treating my meetings like they were a class lecture. 
We concluded that I was likely hurting the team by trying to provide so much help. 
By slowing down and focusing on group efforts to try to make sure everyone could contribute, I wasn’t allowing 
some members to reach their full potential. At this point I switched to forcing more independence by members. 
Through pushing my members to work outside of their comfort zones and take on larger roles and responsibilities, 
I improved their confidence. This increased not only the overall productivity of our team, but also allowed 
each member to contribute more than they believed they were capable of.

As one of the leads most heavily involved in the preparation for the autonomy task at competition, 
I was placed in charge of making decision during that 40 minute timed task. 
I was in charge of planning our strategy and making high pressure decisions that highly impacted our team’s performance. 
Ultimately, our team placed third in the autonomy task and produced our best score in team history. 
Throughout the competition I attempted to convince my entire team that we were going to get a perfect score. 
Many of my teammates begrudgingly followed my lead but never truly believed it. 
Despite missing this goal I had set for us, by the end of competition I had proven to my team that we were competing 
for the top spot in the autonomy task. Further, I instilled the belief in them that our system is perennial contender 
to win the University Rover Challenge - a feat no one thought we could achieve days earlier.

More details about my technical contributions to MRover can be found in the Michigan Mars Rover Team section.
