The [Michigan Mars Rover Team (MRover)](https://mrover.org) is a student run team comprised of individuals across various 
disciplines at the University of Michigan that designs, builds, and tests a mars rover for competition 
at the [University Rover Challenge](https://urc.marssociety.org) every summer. 
I joined MRover in the fall of 2017 during my sophomore year and worked with the team in various roles 
over my four and a half years on the team.

In my first year, I joined the Autonomous Navigation subteam where I, along with two other members, was 
tasked with developing the service that executed all navigation logic for the autonomous mode of the rover. 
The main goal was to develop code to autonomously drive our rover between marked waypoints avoiding any 
obstacles in our path given GPS coordinates that were up to 10 meters away from the waypoints. 
Under our implementation, once at the GPS coordinate we would perform a search for the waypoint marker. 
This was an extremely challenging project for us as neither my teammates nor I had ever worked on components 
in such a large project before. 
As we were approaching the end of my first season on the team, we had made 
a ton of progress however the complexity of our project had grown so much that anytime we went to add features, 
we would spend twice as long debugging and fixing what broke by adding the feature. 
After a while of this, I sat down with our chief software engineer to discuss how we could better approach 
the problem to avoid this issue. 
We decided that using a finite state machine would be a better implementation as it would allow us to model 
our infinitely complex task as a finite set of states. 
This gave us the ability to track our state transitions at every instant which allowed us to more quickly 
identify the set of inputs that was causing unintended behavior in our code. 
While this refactor was likely best for the long term, it was a large undertaking and we were quickly 
approaching a critical deadline. Knowing how inefficiently we were currently working, I decided to take 
on more responsibility and perform the refactor myself. 
After completing this, I gained a strong sense of ownership of the navigation service and quickly became 
the expert on the subject within our team. A few weeks later I earned one of the greatest feelings of 
accomplishment I’ve ever felt when I clicked the “on” button and saw the rover successfully turn and 
drive to a GPS waypoint in the back parking lot of our machine shop.

In large part because of my initiative here and my drive to keep pushing the team to build a better 
autonomy system, I was named the Autonomous Navigation Lead for the following season and earned myself an 
invitation to come to competition. Competition gave us some key insights to focus on for the next season. 
While autonomy mode worked extremely well in our custom built simulator, the integration with the computer 
vision system and odometry sensors limited our performance. Thus, I turned our focus for the following year 
to improving the robustness of the system in the real world despite having imperfect inputs. 
This led to three major improvements to the autonomous navigation system in my second year on the team. 
First, we improved our navigation algorithms. We gutted our search algorithm and redesigned it to work in 
a way that handled false-positive without discarding previous work done, and reduced false-negatives, 
by adding strategic pauses. These pauses made an incredible difference because, by sitting motionless for 
a few seconds, we gave our computer vision service a chance to view our surroundings while the rover was 
still (and thus the camera was stabilized). 
While this was a simple feature to add, it was not easy to determine it was necessary because we did not 
do enough testing outside of our simulator that first season. 
The second improvement we made was to increase the accuracy of our odometry data. 
To achieve this, I designed a sensor fusion algorithm to calculate location and heading estimates. 
The algorithm calculated multiple estimates and weigh them based on our confidence in the sensors used for each estimate. 
For example, instead of relying on just our IMU to calculate current heading, we obtained a second 
estimate through our GPS and accelerometer. 
We used the GPS’s track angle to determine the absolute heading while we were driving and we found the 
change in heading while we were turning using the accelerometer. 
By relying on more sensors, we became less likely to have inaccurate results in theory and this 
proved to be true in our testing. 
This also mitigated the risk of a sensor failing as we could detect a sensor failure and set the weight 
of the estimate(s) based on that sensor to zero.
The third improvement was to decrease our reliance on a single computer vision sensor for obstacle detection.
I initiated our team’s research into ultrasonic and time of flight sensors which could be used alongside our 
stereoscopic camera.
Since these were cheaper sensors than a stereoscopic camera, it also opened the door for using multiple of 
them in different positions.
This aided in detecting steep drop-offs that we wanted the rover to avoid.
After initial research I transitioned this project to some younger members.

These efforts proved to be well worth it as our team performed very well this year at competition achieving 
third place in the autonomy task, our best finish in team history.
More details on my role as the Autonomous Navigation Lead from a less technical perspective can be found in 
the Autonomous Navigation Lead section.

My third year on the team I transitioned to being the lead software technical advisor.
Details about my role in this position from a less technical perspective can be found in the Software Technical Advisor section.
This position also came with many technical challenges as well.
First, I had to learn more about the infrastructure of our software system so that I could help maintain it.
For example we use a custom build tool that manages dependencies that I add features to as the team’s needs change.
Another technical project that I’ve worked on in this role is building the second version of the autonomous 
navigation simulator web application (picturedto the right).
The largest problem with our original simulator was that it had a very large learning curve and therefore 
to most people on the team it was a black box that people were afraid to touch.
So I refactored it using a modern web framework, Vue.
I also used TypeScript and ESLint in order to reduce the risk of members new to web development from making some 
of the common mistakes of JavaScript.
This refactor also allowed me to more easily add new features to the simulator such as adding noise to our simulated sensors.